Bahavior

A pet hamster will behave much as it would in the wild, and understanding hamster behavior will help you to create a healthy and entertaining home for your small pet. Once you learn about hamster habits, you will also be able to identify with your pet’s actions inside the hamster home.

Hamsters function on instinct, and their inborn patterns of behavior come directly from habits crucial to survival in a Middle Eastern environment of temperature extremes, sparse food, and roaming enemies. The digging, climbing, exploring, hoarding, and burrowing critical to survival translate into endearing behavior in your home. Throughout America, hamsters have snuggled their way into millions of hearts.

Your hamster is solitary by nature. After three or four weeks, mothers will drive their children to independence with tiny nips. Hamsters don't need, want and should not have fellow hamster companionship. Your hamster much prefers your company.

Instinctive Hamster Behavior

Solitary: Does not mingle with other hamsters.
Nocturnal: Sleeps all day; wakes, eats, plays and works at night.
Hoarder: Natural need to store, hoard, and move food and bedding.
Chewer: Necessary to shape and shorten continually growing incisors.
Groomer: Maintains a clean body and environment.</p>

<p>Enemies Are Abundant Out There</p>

<p>Just as in nature, your hamster's behavior will change abruptly if he senses danger or feels threatened. His acute sense of smell alerts him to strangers-even to the fact that a different human hand is reaching for him. Your hamster will rise up on his haunches and sniff the air, whiskers twitching. What he wants is a safe, out-of-the way place to hide. Instinct sends him into his burrow, but if that's not available, he'll puff out his cheeks and-when desperate-flop over and play dead. This instinctive behavior may appear "cute"-another endearing quality of these docile creatures. But just as in humans, fear causes stress, anxiety, related diseases, and may shorten his already brief life.</p>