Habitat & Care

Hamsters are extremely clean animals, and they require a very clean habitat or they may become stressed. In addition to maintaining separate eating, sleeping and bathroom areas, hamsters groom themselves almost constantly. When your hamster is grooming, it is normal to see your hamster looking through its fur, brushing, rubbing and licking itself.

In addition to your hamster's solitary nature, your pet is nocturnal. Perhaps because of cooler night temperatures in the natural environment, your pet wakes, eats and plays in the early evening and well into the night. He is comfortable hoarding, burrowing, and exploring in the dark. During the day your pet curls into a ball for sleep. In the wild (or in your house, should the temperature drop), he will hibernate at temperatures below 50-60 degrees F (10 degrees C).

Housing
Hamsters acclimate well to average household temperatures, not to exceed 80°F; be cautious of extreme temperature changes. The habitat should never be in direct sunlight or in a drafty area.
Habitat should be plastic, metal or glass, escape proof with solid bottom; there should be plenty of room for the Hamster to exercise and play. It is best to provide the largest habitat possible.
1-2 inches of bedding should be placed in the habitat; proper bedding includes high quality paper bedding, crumbled paper bedding, or hardwood
shavings. Cedar-based products are not recommended.

Clean the habitat and its contents at least once a week with mild soap and water,rinse and allow to dry completely before placing the Hamster back into the habitat. Remove wet spots daily; change bedding at least once a week, or more often as necessary.

You will need a cage or aquarium that is at least 15 inches long by 12 inches high for one hamster or two dwarf hamsters. Get the largest size possible. The bigger the cage the happier your pet will be.

Bedding or substrate for the bottom of the cage where your pet can burrow and hide.

A water bottle or water dish. You will have less mess to clean up if you use a stoppered bottle in place of a water dish.

A food dish.

Hide and sleeping areas for your hamster.

Toys such as an exercise wheel, ramps, and tunnels so your pet hamster can exercise and explore.