Species

The Golden hamster - also known as Syrian, Standard, Fancy and Teddy Bear - and its cousins, the Chinese and Dwarf hamsters, constitute one of the most popular pet families in the Western world. In American homes, one of these hand-sized, playful creatures is often the first pet introduced to children - and for good reason. Hamsters are by nature clean and easy to care for. They eat little, are readily available through pet stores, and are inexpensive. More importantly, they're playful, fun to watch, active, and, with an average life span of two and a half years, a short-term commitment.

It's a fascinating fact that your Golden hamster is a descendant of a single mother and three surviving offspring found in the Syrian desert in 1940. Originally bred for laboratory research, hamsters were easily domesticated. These playful rodents bear little resemblance to their mice and gerbil relatives. In fact, hamsters look and act more like miniature bears.

Species:		

Campbell's Hamster: Best kept in same-sex pairs or small groups reared together from a young age, the interactions of Campbell’s dwarf hamsters with one another are as fun as their interaction with their keepers. Campbell’s dwarf hamsters are small, but they don't act like it.

Chinese Hamster: Chinese hamsters are unusual among the small varieties of hamster because they have somewhat more in common with the larger Syrian hamster than with the dwarf hamsters. 

Roborovski Hamster: Roborovski dwarf hamsters (sometimes called Robo hamsters) are a social species best kept in same-sex pairs or small groups reared together from a young age. Roborovski dwarf hamsters are exceptionally quick. 

Syrian Hamster: Syrian Hamsters are the largest and best-known of the domesticated hamsters and differ from dwarf hamster species in that they must be housed alone.

Winter White Hamster: Winter White dwarf hamsters are named for their natural camouflage. If exposed to longer nights and shorter days during winter, they become dusted with white over their base color, which they regain in the spring. 